TIPS.md, before:

# Neovim Tips for mdnotes.nvim
`mdnotes` tries to integrate with stock Neovim as much as possible, and through trying to create a great note-writing experience in Neovim, I came across some great built-in Neovim features that are defitely useful when taking any kind of notes. I've listed them below, and I'll update this list as I find out more. Contributions are welcome!

The contents here are replicated in `:h mdnotes-tips`.

## Repeating Last Command
Use `@:` to repeat your last used command, see `:h @:`.

This one is especially useful if you are executing a toggle command like `:Mdn formatting task_list_toggle` when you want to quickly execut the command multiple times.

## Find and Replace
An easy way to search your entire notes directory without any external tools is `vimgrep`, see `:h vimgrep`. It uses the Vim patterns and populates the quickfix list (`:h quickfix`) which you can then use to execute commands on the results. For example,
```vim
:vimgrep /balls/ **
```
would look for the word `balls` in all directories, from the current working directory; this is noted by the `**`. Once the quickfix list is populated, you can browse it with `:copen` and pressing `<CR>` on each result would take you to its location. With this list you can use `:cdo` to execute a command over all of the results. For example, to replace all occurences of the word `balls` with `dict`, you would do,
```vim
:vimgrep /balls/ **
:cdo s/balls/dict/g
```

## Finding Files
The `:find` command is great for finding files in a directory with a not-so-large number of files. If you use this option, it will automatically look in all subdirectories when called, 
```lua
vim.opt.path:append{"**"} -- Use :find for all subdirectories
```
but you can also call it as `:find **` and when you press `<Tab>`, it will autocomplete with the directories.

Commit message:

docs: add using tags and TIPS.md

TIPS.md, after:

# Neovim Tips for mdnotes.nvim
`mdnotes` tries to integrate with stock Neovim as much as possible, and through trying to create a great note-writing experience in Neovim, I came across some great built-in Neovim features that are defitely useful when taking any kind of notes. I've listed them below, and I'll update this list as I find out more. Contributions are welcome!

The contents here are replicated in `:h mdnotes-tips`.

## Repeating Last Command
Use `@:` to repeat your last used command, see `:h @:`.

This one is especially useful if you are executing a toggle command like `:Mdn formatting task_list_toggle` when you want to quickly execut the command multiple times.

## Find and Replace
An easy way to search your entire notes directory without any external tools is `vimgrep`, see `:h vimgrep`. It uses the Vim patterns and populates the quickfix list (`:h quickfix`) which you can then use to execute commands on the results. For example,
```vim
:vimgrep /balls/ **
```
would look for the word `balls` in all directories, from the current working directory; this is noted by the `**`. Once the quickfix list is populated, you can browse it with `:copen` and pressing `<CR>` on each result would take you to its location. With this list you can use `:cdo` to execute a command over all of the results. For example, to replace all occurences of the word `balls` with `dict`, you would do,
```vim
:vimgrep /balls/ **
:cdo s/balls/dict/g
```
### Tags
An obvious use-case for this is with tags, therefore you can use the above example to search for notes with the corresponding tag,
```vim
:vimgrep /#politics/ **
```

## Finding Files
The `:find` command is great for finding files in a directory with a not-so-large number of files. If you use this option, it will automatically look in all subdirectories when called, 
```lua
vim.opt.path:append{"**"} -- Use :find for all subdirectories
```
but you can also call it as `:find **` and when you press `<Tab>`, it will autocomplete with the directories.
